Date: 23 Oct 2020
Teacher: Joseph Garrett
Subj: 1 Cor 2:6-9


Songs: 
1. Come Thou Fount Of Every Blesing (Fernando Ortega)
2. At your name the mountains quake ... Lord of the earth we shoult your name, shout your name ...
  Yahweh, Yahweh we love to shout your name of Lord
3. I See the Lord

prayer

4 volunteers to read passages
How many of you have read a passage so often that you get blined by the applicaiotn or interpretation.
Or a passage taken out of its context. Can you think of a verse ...
   When 2 or more are gathered together
   Jer 29:11 For I know the plans I have for you ...

The next 3 or so lessons were working thru 1 Cor 2:6-3:5
1 Cor 2:6-9
   Who is the we here and what kind of wisdom and why?
   Who are the mature? An elite group of Christians, all believers.
   Who are the rulers of this age?
   What is the hidden wisdom in a mystery?
   In Ro 15, Paul combined old testament passages.
   Vs 8 goes back to Isaiah
1 Cor 2:10-16
   What are the things that God has revealed?
   What are the depths of God?
   Who are the spiritual people and spiritual things?
   Why does a person without the Spirit not receive them?
   Who is the us and the we?
1 Cor 3:1-4
   Who are the spiritual people?

Lets back up and see where we started, the preceeding context.
The 1st few chapters are one long argument.
1 Cor 1:2 Paul called them saints. v4: Thanks for grace.
v6: testimony of Christ was confirmed, in that, the Corinthians were given gifts.
v8: 
v9: the key thing is fellowship with his Son [connects back to mature]/

10: there was not supposed to be divisions. Quarrels were based on people identifying with different factions.
v13: questions show how their divisions were absurd.
v17: this is the key - to preach the gospel. He's not dismissing baptism.
  He lays out how he didn't preach the gospel - with eloquent wisdom.
  eloquent wisdon would have removed the gospel.
v1:18-2:5 has 3 distinct groups of people related to the gospel
   First he gives the great division - the cross.
   People will be saved in all tribe, tongue, and nation.
   The cross divides believer, unbelievers as well as us and God.
   1. The group that rejects the gospel. A common theme is pride (the gospel is foolish)
   2. Those that accepted the gospel (v26-31). 
       No Christian may boast. He tells of their calling and humility.
   3. Those who proclaim the gospel (1 Cor 2:1-5)
       This was done with fear and trembling - a type of humility.

2:1 tells what the mystery was.
  Also how he did it.
v3: our faith can't just be conjured up, we need God's Spirit.
There is no cause to boast for those that accept the gospel (group 2) 
    and those that preach (group 3).
Mr Pat noted the boasting comes from Jeremiah 9:24.
   You can't even boast unless you know Him.

1 Cor 2:6-8
   The 'we' in the plural is the apostels who teach. Apollos; Paul; Peter may have been there.
   The wisdom is a heavenly wisdom.
   The mystery is the concealed message of the gospel. Not mysterious or spooky.
      cross ref: Eph 3:3-7
      God was going to save sinners, not just Jews but gentiles.

Two ages or 2 systems each with their own wisdom. 
  1. Temporal, fleeting, people are blinded of their destruction and arrogant of their existence.
      Self-promotion, prominance, greed, sexual-immorality, & idolatry.
  2. God's system: eternal, not fleeting.
     Wisdom is based on what God did thru Christ.

The mature: 
   Who thinks they are mature a Christian?  [by raise hands] 
   Positionally we're secure in Christ. But the flesh and sin don't go away,
   no need for sanctification. 
   Paradox of someone saved, with a new Spirit (new creation), but still having the flesh
   Chapter 3 explains believers who are still acting like the world.

The rulers of this age: 
   3 options:
   1. Only human leaders
      Possible as some physically crucified Christ
   2. Speaks of the demonic realm
      Less likely, it nullifies there were humans who crucified Christ
	  The weakest option.
   3. Both human leaders and demonic realm.
      Scripture explains who principalities and powers are behind the world system.
       
prayer
