1 Apr 2021
[celebration of communion before good friday]
Teacher: Pr Caleb

[No service handout]

A separate art display (stations) were in Mod C.


song: Oh how He loves us so

Pr Caleb
This is the night He washed the disciples feet and instituted communion.
Challenge - enter into holy imagination, to be at that table that night.
How woudl it be to have Jesus take your feet in His hands, the towel drying your feet.
One of my forms of love is acts of service. In that moment i comprehed how much He loves me.
After Jesus did that He gave his great (new) command - Jn 13:34-35. Its a new command because no one loved like Jesus before.
Our time will focus on reading of the word more than a sermon.
The way I can love like Jesus is recognizing I am loved by Jesus.
1 Jn 3:23-4:17.

song: I was an orphan lost at the fall ....
song: Lord I come I confess bowing here I find my rest .... [Lord I need you]
song: I need Thee every hour Most gracious ...

Pr Caleb read a poem ... [it more than every hour but moment by moment]
Moment by Moment by Daniel Webster Whittle

Jesus gave us a command we can't keep, but we are enlivened to obey the command.
His body broken for us ... consider Him to not become weary and discouraged.
reading of John 6:27-69 [mediate on these words]

1 Cor 11:24 (CSB)
A time to ask the Lord to search you and try you.
Then we'll take the bread together.
prayer
take cup top layer/bread

song: You're my supply my breath of life still more awesome than I know ...
song: take my life and let it be consecrated Lord to thee
song: what gift of grace is Jeus my redeemer there is no more for heaven now to give












"A mew Covenant in My Blood"
  2 Pet 1:3
  Hebrews 8:10-12 - outlines the new covenant. Do you believe the promise?
  Eze 36:25-27 - Do you believe His promise? Do you walk in dependence on God?
  Eph 2:19-22 - this is who we are as a result of His new covenant

prayer: Joel Schroeder

reading 1 Cor 11:25-26. 

take cup

prayer Pr Caleb

song: Let the king of my heart be the mountain where I rum ...
song: When the night is holding on to me God is holding on ...

closing prayer


