Joseph's meeting with Paul B & Mark O.
31 May 2019
Location: sib

Word is truth
Study to apply it.
Before applying, need to interpret the text, then believers apply it.

A chain
revelation (source of truth) -> 
inspiration(somehow a link to people) -> 
transmission (just copying of manuscripts) -> 
translation (various languages & language rules) ->
[all the above are the source, following are purpose]
interpretation ->
application

Now we really only get to translation which is the phase we are in. But the purpose is important for Christians.
The purpose is also called hermeneutics, a science of scripture, but a lot is pre-suppositional.
One assumption, God gave us the message and wants us to know what it means.
Another assumption, we assume it is applicable today
We want to know what the original authors meant or else there is risk of interpreting scritpure through the lens of modern society. In Luther's time, the lens included the pope.
Back them homosexuality was different than today and someone could argue it doesn't apply today.


Going to Hebrews chapter 5...
Question 1 how many groups in the passage? A: two, a direct and indirect audience. 
verses 4-6, 1 group, verses 4-9, 2 groups.
How did you determine the number of groups? A: grammar
Are any groups spoken of in nearby context? A: old testament terminology for Jewish Christians, Christians.
One thing people confuse is an under-estimation or over-estimation of audience. An over estimation is that it is written to believers.
People take the passage Heb 6:4-6 out of context. Paul thought it was difficult to say they were Christians.
Two choices as to who they are: 1) Christians who lost their salvation or 2) not Christians (apostates). 
Paul thought they were Christians, though it was hard to determine.
Everyone agreed a Christian will not loose their salvation.
Mark though not Christians, like sometimes at church someone might not be 'saved'. A A lot of college ministries are "gung-ho", but I wonder how many of them stay Christians later on.
Paul: the word Christian means belongs to Christ.
Mark O: verse 12. Someone can come back after stumbling.
Dave Ludwig had a hermeneutics class 1.5 years ago. Then it was supposed to be applied and I did this passage.

Observations by Paul:
Their hearts were heavy and were tarnishing Christ. It's their fruit.
Sin has always been discussed and they think they can sin and then are a lost cause.

Joseph on observatons Heb 6:4-9:
look at text and list what is or is not there. What from the text can I answer.
The argument in 4-6: It is impossible to do A for those of B because of C [and another interpretaton]
Who can fall and how is not mentioned. But repentance is restated. Many common terms are not present in 4-6.
All inferences are ambiguous 'once enlightened' 'tasted gift'.
In verse 7, the rain falls often and the condition of ground determines the produce or lack thereof.

Pauls interpretation:
It affects everyone the same, it's up to them to determine what to do about it.
God gave each of us what we need and wants us to bear good fruit.

Did you have questions of the text?
Paul: what does 'enlightened' and powers of coming age mean. Also, 'to their own harm' in other translations makes it up to them. the hang-up seems to be with them, a heart issue.

Is the list exhaustive, can it be added to? 
What is reconnection between recrucification and repentance.
Is the impossibility due to ability or desire?

Word studies
-renew (v4) - it is the only time the Greek word shows up in new testament. Rennovate. And only 5-6 times in old testament.
-enlightened can be saving knowledge, but it doesn't say what.
-tasted: 
-shared: 
-tasted: again
-powers of the coming age: without meeting author, can only speculate. Those who were healed tasted the powers of the coming age.
Since we were not there, it is all speculation. Speculation can be helpful, but is also dangerous.

Contextual overview, Paul and Mark are supposed to write their own overview (1/2 page to 1 page).
End of 5, author rebukes audience and says they are lazy and need to be taught basic things.
6: therefore, maturity. v10 God is not unjust. encourages them to continue on.

Paul asked in 5:11-14 they have become lazy; then in 6:12 he say so that you won't become lazy. Not nit-picking, but how does it sound like 2 audiences.
A: 1) It means that only some are lazy or 2) don't remain lazy later.

















