11 Nov 2018
Subj: Adoption Galatians 4 and Romans 8
Teacher: Matteson


Baby dedication
Ivy Jean Amelia Moore (Parents Ryan and Sarah Moore)
Born May 31, 2018
Ivy means ... faithful
Jean means ... gift from God
Amerlia means ... work of God. Also the middle name of birth mom, to honor birth mom.

Autumn Grace - Marie Moore (parents Ryan and sarah Moore)
Born October 2, 2018 (Autumn time)
God's harvest of our prayers!
Grace means ... God's favor
Marie means ... wished for child


Sermon
It is national adoption month. Ryan and sarah moore are good examples. Have at least 24 adopted children was seen on a church list. 
  --Ryan and sarah moore
  --marsjal & bobbi white
  --Dara Harper with Shiloh from China
  --Matt & Elsie Winheim
sometimes people ask if adoption woudl be good. But pastor said to do it not to fill the hole in your life, but the hole in their life. 
Sometimes people in the history of the world want to fill their hole. Sometimes the child say mean things - I hate you; your not my mon/dad. So the adopted parent has to be able to handle that. 

-When do you think adoption was first introduced in America? In 1851 in Massachusetts passed the first law

This all leads up to us being adopted:
Exodus 2:10 - Moses was adopted to Pharoah's daughter.
God planned for Moses to have best education, etc to be prepared to lead Israelites to promised land.
Ac 7:21 -  when Jewish babies were born in Egypt, Pharoah said to put them outside the home to die. But Pharoah's daughter adopted Moses as own son.
Esther 2:7 Mordecai had adopted her as his own daughter. the Jewish people were in persia at this time, 100s of miles away from Jerusalem. Esther was Queen and risked going to king - because the king did not know everything taking place.
Both Moses & Esther were put in positions to lead Israelites. 

Est 2:15 Esther again was adopted as own daughter.
When pastor talks about adoption, it can be a difficult concept for people. The last time it was discussed, someone got upset. 
sometime adopted children think biological parents don't want them.
People with no children, can stay that way without college bills. They are choosing to carry the burden. 

God wants to adopt us...
You were born into this world, not part of His family, and He wants to choose you.

Jn 15:16 ... I chose you. Some adoptions the parent is just given a particular child, did not pick a particular one. It is something they choose to take on.
Pastor told Dera to fill the hole in the child not your hole and make sure existing children are prepared too. She adopted a special needs guy from China. When asked if she wanted to adopt, she said everyone needs a mommy. 

Sermon is a sentence: The Lord has chosen to adopt us!
What are the privileges of our adoption?
1. We are given a family.
   When Dera flew to China, the nurses walked him down to Dera and said here is your mom, turned aroudn and left. The little guy was thinking what.

Jn 1:11-12. 
Gal 4:4-5. 
A picture of pastor graduation. His folks and family were way in back whre the people were small in the picture. They were in a place with something to lean against. When coming up in the line, you gave them your name on a small paper and told them verbally, then they reiterated it.
Pastor's dad was short about 5 ft. He might have been 4'11" back then, But when pastor went up his dad yelled as loud as possible, but pastor did not hear him because the distance was too far away.
One of the hardest times for adopted children is Satan wants them to think they were not wanted. 

2. We were given the Holy Spirit. Ro 8:15-16. Ro 8:26-27. Ro 7 describes struggles then Ro 8 how Spirit helps in weakness. 
Jn 16:13-14. Many times we fail to pray optimally like in 3rd person.
The Holy Spirt: He will glorify Me then helps us/me do that too.
Gal 4:4-7a. God sent the Spirit of his Son ito our hearts.


3. We are given loving fatherly discipline.
You can't imagine how you would turn out without discipline - slfishness, arrogance, etc. Parents discipline mitigates this.
Gal 4:4-7a twice calls us sons/children.
How does he treat us as sons? Heb 12:5-6. Calls sons because back then the firstborn son got inheritance.
vs 7; 
Heb 12:8-9 illegitimate children are not disciplined. 
Heb 12:10-11 discipline is for our benefit to share in holiness.

4. We are given the rights of an heir. not err not error. 
Audrey's parents are still alive. They have 2 children, a daughter and son. they made out a will/living trust. Who did thye put as heirs? Their children. Who does God put? His children.
In addition to audrey & sibling, the wife and audrey's husband in included for inheritance. 
Ps 50:10. 
Gal 4:7 He owns heaven, would you like to go there?

Have you been adopted into God's family? Admit and confess sins; believe Christ died & rose again.












