11 Aug 2019
pastor Matteson
Psalm 72 [TV's not working so planned message was swapped]


When searching for new pastor, 2 things
-1. put in place one to two months in case of heart attack. A vice-chairman of the elder board allows ministry to go on.
When Moses died, God raised Joshua. Ministry goes on.
The other ministries go on without 'me' - childrens, spanish, youth.
We decided 1-3 yrs to change pastors, so far 1 year went by.
Dave and Elenor still do water ministries and building schools in Kenya. Elenor's mom got into witchcraft, but after mom passed away, the finances were used for God instead.
In October, Dave asked if pastor would go to another church - I thought it was a joke. i'm 70, but Dave said they wanted a 70 year old.
God maybe teaching me about the process.
I've been here 33 years. There was no board when I came so I thought the Lord was giving me experience.
Audrey & I met with the other church, and they said pastor was the number 1 choice.

rightwousness. If you could rob a bank and no one would know, a yes answer to rob lacks integrity.
Integrity is doing right when no one else is there to tell you what to do.

You [when finding new pastor] you want someone who will do righteousness.

*Verse 5: You want someone who has endurance. Start and finish race.
As a church and elders, history is not on our side for the next pastor. History says if a pastor has been around 10 years, the next pastor rarely succeeds, since people were used to the first pastor.
There are people that might not work well together in church even if they love each other.
Steve Smith talked me into the LA marathon when I was 50. We started a year ahead of time for he 26 mile marathon. For a pastor to succeed, he will need a wife who can endure as well, but that doesn't mean she will run the 26 mile marathon. My wife has been at about every service I taught, or else was sick or picking up dad at nursing home.
Enduring is also in the marriage viw: till death do we part.

verse 8: When looking for next pastor, look for someone with universal influence. they don't have to be known globally, but the people who know them can connect.  

verse 12: Someone who is compassionate.
As I watch super churches, there can be difference betwene leaders and those that care.

verse 15: people will pray for him. 

Turn to new testament:
1 Thess 2:1-4. We are not trying to please men, but God. If you want him to please you, your heart is not in the right place.
1 Thess 2:5-7
People from the outside will want to know numbers - attendance, staff. God does numbers like hairs on head, or the book of Numbers, and He cares who has trusted, but it is not about those numbers.
Your looking for someone like a nurse.
Grandaughter, will be 4 Monday not yet 40 lbs which is needed for heart surgery.
1 Thess 2:8, 10-12. The next guy won't be perfect. Maybe I acceidentally hurt someone. The next guy won't do it intentionally.
I would not have been here 33 years if some people didn't cut me some slack.





















