The Book of Psalms


1:1 Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly,
nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the
scornful.

1:2 But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law doth he
meditate day and night.

1:3 And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that
bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not
wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

1:4 The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind
driveth away.

1:5 Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners
in the congregation of the righteous.

1:6 For the LORD knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the
ungodly shall perish.



2:1 Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?

2:2 The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel
together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, saying,

2:3 Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from
us.

2:4 He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the LORD shall have
them in derision.

2:5 Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his
sore displeasure.

2:6 Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.

2:7 I will declare the decree: the LORD hath said unto me, Thou art my
Son; this day have I begotten thee.

2:8 Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine
inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.

2:9 Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in
pieces like a potter's vessel.

2:10 Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of
the earth.

2:11 Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling.

2:12 Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when
his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their
trust in him.



3:1 Lord, how are they increased that trouble me! many are they that
rise up against me.

3:2 Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in
God.

Selah.

3:3 But thou, O LORD, art a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up
of mine head.

3:4 I cried unto the LORD with my voice, and he heard me out of his
holy hill. Selah.

3:5 I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the LORD sustained me.

3:6 I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set
themselves against me round about.

3:7 Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God: for thou hast smitten all mine
enemies upon the cheek bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the
ungodly.

3:8 Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: thy blessing is upon thy
people.

Selah.



4:1 Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged
me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer.

4:2 O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how
long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah.

4:3 But know that the LORD hath set apart him that is godly for
himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him.

4:4 Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your
bed, and be still. Selah.

4:5 Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the
LORD.

4:6 There be many that say, Who will shew us any good? LORD, lift thou
up the light of thy countenance upon us.

4:7 Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that
their corn and their wine increased.

4:8 I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep: for thou, LORD, only
makest me dwell in safety.



5:1 Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.

5:2 Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto
thee will I pray.

5:3 My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning
will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.

5:4 For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither
shall evil dwell with thee.

5:5 The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers
of iniquity.

5:6 Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor
the bloody and deceitful man.

5:7 But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy
mercy: and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.

5:8 Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies;
make thy way straight before my face.

5:9 For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is
very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre; they flatter with
their tongue.

5:10 Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels;
cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have
rebelled against thee.

5:11 But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them
ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that
love thy name be joyful in thee.

5:12 For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou
compass him as with a shield.



6:1 O LORD, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy
hot displeasure.

6:2 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; for my
bones are vexed.

6:3 My soul is also sore vexed: but thou, O LORD, how long?

6:4 Return, O LORD, deliver my soul: oh save me for thy mercies' sake.

6:5 For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who
shall give thee thanks?

6:6 I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swim;
I water my couch with my tears.

6:7 Mine eye is consumed because of grief; it waxeth old because of
all mine enemies.

6:8 Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; for the LORD hath
heard the voice of my weeping.

6:9 The LORD hath heard my supplication; the LORD will receive my
prayer.

6:10 Let all mine enemies be ashamed and sore vexed: let them return
and be ashamed suddenly.



7:1 O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them
that persecute me, and deliver me:

7:2 Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while
there is none to deliver.

7:3 O LORD my God, If I have done this; if there be iniquity in my
hands;

7:4 If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea,
I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)

7:5 Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let him tread
down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.

7:6 Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage
of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast
commanded.

7:7 So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for
their sakes therefore return thou on high.

7:8 The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my
righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me.

7:9 Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish
the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.

7:10 My defence is of God, which saveth the upright in heart.

7:11 God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every
day.

7:12 If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and
made it ready.

7:13 He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he
ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.

7:14 Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief,
and brought forth falsehood.

7:15 He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch which
he made.

7:16 His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent
dealing shall come down upon his own pate.

7:17 I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will
sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.



8:1 O LORD, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who
hast set thy glory above the heavens.

8:2 Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained
strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy
and the avenger.

8:3 When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and
the stars, which thou hast ordained;

8:4 What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man,
that thou visitest him?

8:5 For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast
crowned him with glory and honour.

8:6 Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou
hast put all things under his feet:

8:7 All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field;

8:8 The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever
passeth through the paths of the seas.

8:9 O LORD our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!


9:1 I will praise thee, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will shew forth
all thy marvellous works.

9:2 I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy
name, O thou most High.

9:3 When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at
thy presence.

9:4 For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the
throne judging right.

9:5 Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked,
thou hast put out their name for ever and ever.

9:6 O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou
hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them.

9:7 But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne
for judgment.

9:8 And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister
judgment to the people in uprightness.

9:9 The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in
times of trouble.

9:10 And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for
thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.

9:11 Sing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among
the people his doings.

9:12 When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he
forgetteth not the cry of the humble.

9:13 Have mercy upon me, O LORD; consider my trouble which I suffer of
them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death:

9:14 That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter
of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation.

9:15 The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made: in the net
which they hid is their own foot taken.

9:16 The LORD is known by the judgment which he executeth: the wicked
is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah.

9:17 The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that
forget God.

9:18 For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of
the poor shall not perish for ever.

9:19 Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in
thy sight.

9:20 Put them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to
be but men. Selah.



10:1 Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyself in
times of trouble?

10:2 The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be
taken in the devices that they have imagined.

10:3 For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the
covetous, whom the LORD abhorreth.

10:4 The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek
after God: God is not in all his thoughts.

10:5 His ways are always grievous; thy judgments are far above out of
his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them.

10:6 He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall
never be in adversity.

10:7 His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his
tongue is mischief and vanity.

10:8 He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret
places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against
the poor.

10:9 He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait
to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into
his net.

10:10 He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by
his strong ones.

10:11 He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his
face; he will never see it.

10:12 Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble.

10:13 Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his
heart, Thou wilt not require it.

10:14 Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to
requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou
art the helper of the fatherless.

10:15 Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his
wickedness till thou find none.

10:16 The LORD is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out
of his land.

10:17 LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt
prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear:

10:18 To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the
earth may no more oppress.



11:1 In the LORD put I my trust: how say ye to my soul, Flee as a bird
to your mountain?

11:2 For, lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow
upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart.

11:3 If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?

11:4 The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD's throne is in heaven:
his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.

11:5 The LORD trieth the righteous: but the wicked and him that loveth
violence his soul hateth.

11:6 Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and an
horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup.

11:7 For the righteous LORD loveth righteousness; his countenance doth
behold the upright.



12:1 Help, LORD; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from
among the children of men.

12:2 They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flattering
lips and with a double heart do they speak.

12:3 The LORD shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that
speaketh proud things:

12:4 Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail; our lips are our
own: who is lord over us?

12:5 For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now
will I arise, saith the LORD; I will set him in safety from him that
puffeth at him.

12:6 The words of the LORD are pure words: as silver tried in a
furnace of earth, purified seven times.

12:7 Thou shalt keep them, O LORD, thou shalt preserve them from this
generation for ever.

12:8 The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted.



13:1 How long wilt thou forget me, O LORD? for ever? how long wilt
thou hide thy face from me?

13:2 How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my
heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?

13:3 Consider and hear me, O LORD my God: lighten mine eyes, lest I
sleep the sleep of death;

13:4 Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that
trouble me rejoice when I am moved.

13:5 But I have trusted in thy mercy; my heart shall rejoice in thy
salvation.

13:6 I will sing unto the LORD, because he hath dealt bountifully with
me.



14:1 The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are
corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth
good.

14:2 The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see
if there were any that did understand, and seek God.

14:3 They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy:
there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

14:4 Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my
people as they eat bread, and call not upon the LORD.

14:5 There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of
the righteous.

14:6 Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the LORD is his
refuge.

14:7 Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the
LORD bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice,
and Israel shall be glad.



15:1 Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy
holy hill?

15:2 He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and
speaketh the truth in his heart.

15:3 He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his
neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour.

15:4 In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honoureth them
that fear the LORD. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth
not.

15:5 He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward
against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.



16:1 Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust.

16:2 O my soul, thou hast said unto the LORD, Thou art my Lord: my
goodness extendeth not to thee;

16:3 But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in
whom is all my delight.

16:4 Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another god:
their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their
names into my lips.

16:5 The LORD is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou
maintainest my lot.

16:6 The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a
goodly heritage.

16:7 I will bless the LORD, who hath given me counsel: my reins also
instruct me in the night seasons.

16:8 I have set the LORD always before me: because he is at my right
hand, I shall not be moved.

16:9 Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also
shall rest in hope.

16:10 For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou
suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.

16:11 Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness
of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.



17:1 Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my
prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.

17:2 Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes
behold the things that are equal.

17:3 Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me in the night;
thou hast tried me, and shalt find nothing; I am purposed that my
mouth shall not transgress.

17:4 Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept
me from the paths of the destroyer.

17:5 Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.

17:6 I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline
thine ear unto me, and hear my speech.

17:7 Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy
right hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up
against them.

17:8 Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy
wings,

17:9 From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who
compass me about.

17:10 They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak
proudly.

17:11 They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their
eyes bowing down to the earth;

17:12 Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a
young lion lurking in secret places.

17:13 Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul
from the wicked, which is thy sword:

17:14 From men which are thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world,
which have their portion in this life, and whose belly thou fillest
with thy hid treasure: they are full of children, and leave the rest
of their substance to their babes.

17:15 As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be
satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.



18:1 I will love thee, O LORD, my strength.

18:2 The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God,
my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my
salvation, and my high tower.

18:3 I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall
I be saved from mine enemies.

18:4 The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men
made me afraid.

18:5 The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death
prevented me.

18:6 In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried unto my God: he
heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even
into his ears.

18:7 Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the
hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.

18:8 There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his
mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

18:9 He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under
his feet.

18:10 And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the
wings of the wind.

18:11 He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him
were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.

18:12 At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed,
hail stones and coals of fire.

18:13 The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his
voice; hail stones and coals of fire.

18:14 Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out
lightnings, and discomfited them.

18:15 Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of
the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the
breath of thy nostrils.

18:16 He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.

18:17 He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated
me: for they were too strong for me.

18:18 They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my
stay.

18:19 He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me,
because he delighted in me.

18:20 The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to
the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

18:21 For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly
departed from my God.

18:22 For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his
statutes from me.

18:23 I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine
iniquity.

18:24 Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my
righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.

18:25 With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an
upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;

18:26 With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward
thou wilt shew thyself froward.

18:27 For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down
high looks.

18:28 For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my
darkness.

18:29 For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I
leaped over a wall.

18:30 As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the LORD is tried:
he is a buckler to all those that trust in him.

18:31 For who is God save the LORD? or who is a rock save our God?

18:32 It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way
perfect.

18:33 He maketh my feet like hinds' feet, and setteth me upon my high
places.

18:34 He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by
mine arms.

18:35 Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy
right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.

18:36 Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.

18:37 I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I
turn again till they were consumed.

18:38 I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are
fallen under my feet.

18:39 For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast
subdued under me those that rose up against me.

18:40 Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might
destroy them that hate me.

18:41 They cried, but there was none to save them: even unto the LORD,
but he answered them not.

18:42 Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did
cast them out as the dirt in the streets.

18:43 Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; and
thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not
known shall serve me.

18:44 As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers
shall submit themselves unto me.

18:45 The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close
places.

18:46 The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my
salvation be exalted.

18:47 It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.

18:48 He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up
above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the
violent man.

18:49 Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the
heathen, and sing praises unto thy name.

18:50 Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to
his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.



19:1 The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth
his handywork.

19:2 Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth
knowledge.

19:3 There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.

19:4 Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to
the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,

19:5 Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth
as a strong man to run a race.

19:6 His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit
unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.

19:7 The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the
testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.

19:8 The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the
commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.

19:9 The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments
of the LORD are true and righteous altogether.

19:10 More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold:
sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.

19:11 Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them
there is great reward.

19:12 Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret
faults.

19:13 Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not
have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be
innocent from the great transgression.

19:14 Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be
acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.



20:1 The LORD hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of
Jacob defend thee;

20:2 Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of
Zion;

20:3 Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice;
Selah.

20:4 Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy
counsel.

20:5 We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God we
will set up our banners: the LORD fulfil all thy petitions.

20:6 Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed; he will hear him
from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.

20:7 Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember
the name of the LORD our God.

20:8 They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand
upright.

20:9 Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call.



21:1 The king shall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation
how greatly shall he rejoice!

21:2 Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden
the request of his lips. Selah.

21:3 For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou
settest a crown of pure gold on his head.

21:4 He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of
days for ever and ever.

21:5 His glory is great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou
laid upon him.

21:6 For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him
exceeding glad with thy countenance.

21:7 For the king trusteth in the LORD, and through the mercy of the
most High he shall not be moved.

21:8 Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall
find out those that hate thee.

21:9 Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger:
the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour
them.

21:10 Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed
from among the children of men.

21:11 For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous
device, which they are not able to perform.

21:12 Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, when thou shalt
make ready thine arrows upon thy strings against the face of them.

21:13 Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: so will we sing
and praise thy power.



22:1 My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far
from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?

22:2 O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the
night season, and am not silent.

22:3 But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.

22:4 Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver
them.

22:5 They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee,
and were not confounded.

22:6 But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of
the people.

22:7 All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip,
they shake the head, saying,

22:8 He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver
him, seeing he delighted in him.

22:9 But thou art he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me
hope when I was upon my mother's breasts.

22:10 I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my
mother's belly.

22:11 Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to
help.

22:12 Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset
me round.

22:13 They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a
roaring lion.

22:14 I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint:
my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.

22:15 My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth
to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.

22:16 For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have
inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.

22:17 I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me.

22:18 They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.

22:19 But be not thou far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste thee
to help me.

22:20 Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the
dog.

22:21 Save me from the lion's mouth: for thou hast heard me from the
horns of the unicorns.

22:22 I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the
congregation will I praise thee.

22:23 Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob,
glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel.

22:24 For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the
afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried
unto him, he heard.

22:25 My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay
my vows before them that fear him.

22:26 The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD
that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.

22:27 All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD:
and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.

22:28 For the kingdom is the LORD's: and he is the governor among the
nations.

22:29 All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they
that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive
his own soul.

22:30 A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a
generation.

22:31 They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a
people that shall be born, that he hath done this.



23:1 The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.

23:2 He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside
the still waters.

23:3 He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness
for his name's sake.

23:4 Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I
will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they
comfort me.

23:5 Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies:
thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.

23:6 Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.
